February 6th, I'm at 1207, February 7th, and I'm at 1207 Neal Pickett getting ready to chat with B.J.
Adams.
B.J., check your mic.
Okay, and how does all of that go with you now?
B.J., for the sake of those people who will read a transcript of this and may not have known you personally, would you begin by summarizing your background and experience before you came to A&M as a student?
Where was home and so forth?
Yep.
I was born and raised on a farm outside of Forney, Texas, which is 20 miles east of Dallas when we live three miles east of Forney.
I went to the public schools in Forney, graduated there in 1935, but during those depression years, I couldn't come on to college that year.
because brother just older than me was already down here and he was graduating that year and besides I was too young really.
So I took some postgraduate work at the high school level and by doing that I got out of working on the farm during those days that I was in school because I was
convinced in my own mind that I was not gonna be a farmer.
I had seen what daddy did and that was not for me.
Although I did participate in Future Farmers or whatever it was we had in Forney, I'm not sure that it was Future Farmers, but anyway, it was that type of an organization.
And in that period I came to A&M a couple of times
as a high school student, participating in some judging contests, and those were my first experiences on campus.
But backing up a bit, I'm the last of five children, four boys and one girl, the girl was in the middle, and she went to what was then CIA.
Each of the other four of us came to A&M, so it was not
a new thought in my mind just because I came to a future farmers meeting down here that I was coming down here.
Truly it never entered my mind that I would go to any other place.
I just, it was never part of it.
That farm, what was its money crop?
Cotton.
It was a,
Daddy lost his land that he owned at the early part of the Depression.
The Depression started before the, for farmers at least, started before the Wall Street crash.
Wall Street crash was the ending of it for the farmers.
And Daddy lost his land, and he was then what is called sharecropping.
For all of the corn and for the non-cash crops, put it,
the owner of the land would get one third of that, and the cash crop, the owner would get one fourth, and cotton was our cash crop.
So we'd raise it and whatever, that result, that was what the owner of the land got.
And he furnished the land, the house, the barns, and all of that.
We had to furnish the mules and implements.
About how many acres?
A hundred.
I don't know, it just seemed that, well, the way daddy lost his land, as I understand it, was that when my oldest brother was in school down here,
Daddy figured out that 100 acres really wasn't enough because he had another son coming on.
And so he expanded, bought another 100 acres, but at the wrong time.
That's been happening to a lot of people.
Did you all use the word sharecropper then?
Yes.
My Dallas County relatives in that same era called themselves rent farmers.
Exactly the same thing, but they didn't, they didn't, that sure cropping is what somebody else did, they did.
No, as far as I know, we used it all the time.
And Mr. S.H.
Boren owned the land, he was out of Dallas.
We sharecropped with him.
All right, so you didn't have then a first visit to give you an impression of A&M or anything.
You came a year after you graduated from high school.
When you came that time to enroll, how did you get here?
What did you bring?
Okay, yeah.
The folks took me to Dallas and put me on a train and I had a
I don't remember the specific details, but it was some sort of a small trunk.
And as I now come to
believe it was essentially what it was, footlocker for the Army purposes.
Had a little tray in the top and that's where you put your socks and all that kind of stuff.
And they put me on the train with my footlocker and I came down here and got off of the train at College Station down there.
And I knew what outfit I was looking for.
My brother graduated just the year before me, was in F Battery Field and that's what I was going to be in.
And I kind of drugged my Foot Locker and finally it was somewhere around dark when I got here and I went up to the academic building and there in the rotunda on the left
There was an office with lights in it, and the door was open, and I went in.
It was a commandant's office.
But he was very nice and gentle with me, and also told me where F Battery was housed, and so I went back to Law Hall, 6th Stoop, and there was some F Battery people, and I don't remember exactly how I spent the first night, but that's where we stayed.
Now what all was in that Foot Locker?
What kind of stuff did you bring?
Socks of course and underwear.
I would imagine I probably had about four pair of underwear and four or five socks and I don't remember the
I had some other clothes, pants, and shirt, but I knew that I would be getting a uniform here, and so I doubt very much that I had an awful lot.
Well, in the first place, I didn't own an awful lot.
And then, of course, what little shaving stuff I needed.
I didn't have a heavy beard or anything and soap and some towels
I'm sure mama made me bring a bar of soap and just little stuff like that.
All right and that outfit that you were looking for, was there any question about your being allowed to become a part of that outfit?
No.
My brother just graduated before me and kind of warned me that he didn't think I'd have any trouble, but that there might be some in there that would kind of take it out on me for what he might have done to them.
But that really never did happen.
I was really, as far as I can tell, essentially welcomed.
One of his friends, and it was a friend, Joe Black, veterinarian, senior that year, and he chose me as his room orderly.
and there was nobody else in there that would really mess with me, not even O.D.
Butler nor Bill Greenwald, sophomores, because they knew that Joe Black was my mentor, if you want to put it that way, and that was,
That was it.
That outfit have a nickname?
No, not really.
No, I don't really remember that outfits had nicknames in those days.
I was in F Battery.
I guess the closest would have been E Battery.
They would have, they had a lot of people in there from San Antonio.
And so E-battery was a San Antonio battery.
And if anybody said San Antonio battery, everybody knew what they were talking about.
But it was not, we did not really go by nicknames like some of them over here now.
How are you?
Good to see you.
Let's see.
Describe the campus when you first arrived physically.
What buildings were where?
Well, there was no new dorm area, core dorm area, whatever you want to call it.
Over on that side, the last building kind of on the southeast side was an old horse barn that was
modified and is still in existence over there right across from the quad dorms.
It, I don't know, forestry or somebody is in there now, right across from the computer center.
And that was essentially the southeast corner of the campus.
We had, of course,
The center part of the campus, the old Cushing Library, the academic building that I mentioned, Francis Hall, and the next building is
Ag building, I don't, it seems like it's been renamed something, but that Ag building that is just beyond Cushing and now Turling Evans Library.
And of course the administration building, big one down there was relatively new.
And the
pavilion, but it was strictly a pavilion.
No offices in it or whatever.
And then you said Francis Hall was there and there was the geology building, one with kind of a little dome on top and just beyond that
Another, was that vet medicine at that time?
I'm not quite sure.
And then back up the old engineering shops, ME shops, and the
Bookstore.
Bookstore had a cleaning plant up on the second floor and Cebiza and the extra frame building in behind there, in behind Cebiza in the post office, back up to the frame building the president's quarters and
where the current All-Faith Chapel is with a wooden theater, and then Law and Prairie right there, and the Y, and what is it?
There was another building right there, an old building.
I believe it's gone now.
Signal Corps was in that one right then.
Were there many flowers and trees visible then?
Flowers as such, I don't remember, but the trees were and they were, most of them were small because they were just getting into the
into that stage of being able to dress the campus up.
Describe how a fish became a part of everything.
What was it like in the dining hall and the dormitory and all?
Describe your initiation.
Well, there were three of us freshmen in one place, in one room.
for living accommodations and upperclassmen usually were two to a room, but freshmen three, sometimes even four, but most of the time three if they could get away with it.
And we would be rousted out six o'clock in the morning by a couple of sophomores to go out and do some close order drill.
And mostly close order drill, not calisthenics as such.
learning to march in unison and everything and then go back and finish cleaning up, finish dressing mostly and fall in for breakfast and march to the meals, all time marching to the meals as a unit.
And when you hit the steps, you would take off your hat and start yelling and go to your table.
The tables were assigned to the various outfits and
And when you, after you went in there once, you knew where your table was.
And the most senior upperclassmen would sit at the end of the tables and you would, of course, pass them the food at either end.
And then most of the time you'd have to wait for the Subisa volunteer to bring you some more food so that you could eat.
But talking about eating, I don't think,
Any freshman, even today, ever lost weight at Cebiza Hall or any others.
And we would, if we didn't have enough, we would just hang around and do some meal hounding, going to other tables and getting them.
seeing what food they had left, and that's what you wanted, and then you would eat it.
But also we would have to run errands for the upperclassmen.
I remember I would have to run for just various people, but I don't know whether it's because of subsequent events, but it just kind of sticks in my mind maybe that
I had to go to the post office a couple of times, more than that probably, for O.D.
Butler.
And I could, for some reason or another, I could never remember the combination to his box.
And so whenever I couldn't remember the combination, I'd go and find Mr. Teague.
Mr. Teague, Fish Adams here, and I need to get the mail for Mr. So-and-so out of his box, and I don't know the number.
And he was always good enough to help me.
But your regular, your upperclassmen for whom you were room orderly, you kind of got to know his, the combination of his mailbox, and you never forgot it.
And then we had to be back in our rooms by
seemed like 7 o'clock and you could not be out without a pass.
If you were going to the library or you checked out with a sophomore or somebody and put a pass on your door that gave you the excuse for being out of your room and lights were out by 10 o'clock at 10 o'clock and
If they checked and you still were not through studying, some of us at times would turn the lights back on after they came by and checked.
What about some activities that you experienced as a freshman that today would be defined as hazing?
Can you describe some of those?
Well, one of them was airing out.
They would just say air out freshman and you got out of your rooms and ran as far as you could or hit or whatever.
In that regard, I was, my roommates and I were very lucky.
We were on the ground floor on the back west side of Law Hall.
We always kept the screen to the windows unlocked and we could, if we heard anything from the next stoop or anything, we were gone.
And about 50 yards, well not 50 yards really, well something like that, there was a little creek line that is still on the campus.
We'd go over there and kind of lay on the bank and just
kind of look around and see what was happening.
And if everything quieted down, we would go back, but always going back to our room through the window, not through the front door.
And there was some board use on some.
I don't really remember getting my butt beat by a board as a freshman.
I'm sure it probably happened, but it was, and it was probably more than a little love tap or whatever you want to call it, but it was not extensive whatsoever.
I just never, I do not remember that as any sort of a problem at all.
And I was sort of expecting it, but I don't think that it lived up to my expectations of what might happen in that regard.
I got my butt beat one time, but that was my fourth year
I lettered in basketball.
And that was my first letter.
And every new person who got a letter was supposed to take the board to everyone who had previously lettered.
In every sport?
In every sport.
And I took, this was in
1940, and I took the board and went down to dorm 12.
And when I came back to dorm 4 to take my pants off, I had to get into the shower to get my shorts off.
And that, that, well, I was very, very pleased to be able to get my letter
And if that's what it took, well, that was fine.
But I wouldn't want to go through it again.
But that's...
For me, enduring hazing, that was the roughest part in the physical sense.
As far as you know, did every letterman in every sport go through that?
I'm sure that some of them did not.
But it was supposed to happen, yes.
What about some other freshman hazing games?
drowning out.
We would sort of identify an upperclassmen that had been given us trouble, whatever you want to call it, and some way or another we would contrive that
We knew when he was going to sleep and get us a big bucket of water or buckets and go in and throw it on him in the bed and leave the buckets on the floor so that he might have trouble getting around and out and then be the hasty retreat and we always planned which way you were going
you would always split up also so that he couldn't get both the three of you or whatever all in one swoop.
And one, there was a high school classmate of mine, Milton Ray, who came down here when we graduated from high school.
And so he was a sophomore, and he was over in E battery, that San Antonio battery.
I don't know how he ever got there, but in the spring, I took my feather pillow and went to his room, cut the pillow open and shook the feathers out in his room.
And I don't think he ever, ever knew who that was.
And my mother would never give me another pillow.
And I finally bought me a pillow, but I didn't get it from Mama.
Because I told her what had happened, and she, well, that's what you think a pillow?
Well, you don't need one.
Let's see.
In the dining hall, were there any games played at mealtime?
Pranks?
Jokes?
We would always, I won't say always, but fairly common that you would do something.
if somebody liked something and you didn't, you would not hesitate to drop it on the floor so that you couldn't get it.
Stuff like that.
And I don't remember the specifics, but there was some way that you could mess something up on their plate.
I don't, I just kind of forgotten
But there was always, after you got to know the other freshmen, somebody would always be able to think of something, something a little different.
And I was never very creative in that manner.
Food nicknames, do you remember some?
Let's see.
Salt and pepper, sand and dirt.
The most that I remember just kush, the beverages.
I don't remember any particularly in that one.
Okay.
Did y'all play Cush questions?
You had to answer the question in order to eat your share of the dessert?
That apparently comes on later.
John Hall asked me a question not long ago.
Do you remember the, this is a question to me, do you remember the words over the entrance to Guyon Hall?
I said no.
And he started reeling them off.
He had to learn them as a freshman.
I didn't have to, we didn't have to do that.
But we had other types of things.
The two that I specifically remember, and these tie in to later in life, a door.
A door is something you can walk through when closed as well as open but not as easy as.
And a window is something the wind blows through when closed as well as open but not as much as.
And that all kind of came back to my mind
when we were living at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, and a dust storm would come up.
And so it wasn't something that the dust blows through and shut as well as open, but not quite as much as.
Now, with questions like that, you were expected to define for an upper class?
What is a door?
What is, okay.
And you had to answer and be fairly specific about it.
They had a lot more than just a door and a window.
For your freshman year, describe what a typical day was from 6 in the morning through the evening.
After you went to breakfast and then what?
We'd come back and
do whatever little chores you needed to do and you might not have been able to get done before by Christmas and then gather your material and I would always try to get out of the room.
I either go to the library or somewhere get out of the room but again depending upon your class schedule and although I would
If I didn't have a class at 11 o'clock I would usually come back there, back to the room about that time to kind of get ready for dinner and so on.
Then in the afternoon we had quite a few labs and you would get into your coveralls and go to the labs and
Again, get out of the room.
But we almost always had to be back by about four o'clock so that you could participate in the current intramurals or maybe some more close order drill or whatever.
And they were strong on getting teams for each one of the individual batteries or individual organizations, companies and batteries, and try to form teams so that you could compete as a team in the intramurals.
And that was always starting as soon after four o'clock as people could get back.
I don't remember exactly when we had to go to the evening meal, but stay out as long as you could and hurry back and get dressed and fall in for the evening meal.
But that intramural sport was a
pretty important part of the day in the life of a battery or company, whatever.
Getting to have the freshman teams and the upperclassmen team and there would always be some upperclassmen that would kind of help organize the freshman team and get it started and moving and so on.
Then after, let's see, you went back after intramurals, changed clothes?
And back to fall in and go to meal.
In formation?
Oh, yes, in formation.
Let's see.
On the weekends, you didn't have to have formation all the time.
I think that might have started for Saturday night.
You see, we had classes on Saturday mornings, and we would, if you ate on the campus, you would go through, and most of us ate on the campus.
We didn't have the money to go elsewhere, and there wasn't anywhere else to go, really, except the cases.